PLACELL
Strategy game

Paluyan Brylov


PROJECT IDEA:
Android / IOS mobile game
create your strategy
assemble your cell
learn a little bit about biology
different locations
evolve


DEV PROCESS:
analysis of existing games with a similar ideas
thinking about possible game aspects
conceptual design (will be presented in a final presentation)
creating visual concept (poster)
making a survey about game aspects
collecting new ideas and opinions from possible users
creating UI mockup
testing UI mockup - to be doen 
production - to be done


1.Analysis of existing games:

What we’ve found?
What could be done better?

Cell to Singularity - Evolution Never Ends
rating: 4.4
5m+ downloads
Evolve from a simple cell to a complex creature
- bad (too old) visuals
+ possibility to see an evolution process
	
Cell Lab: Evolution Sandbox 
rating; 4.2
1m+ downloads
Create your own microorganism and survive
+ you are a God
+ simulation
- difficult UI
- unpleasant UI visuals

Cell World
rating 4.5
100k+ downloads
Explore the inside of a human cell
+ educational purposes
+ visualising of different cell’s organelles
- old graphics
- old UI


COMMON PROBLEMS:
- old or hard UI
- old visuals

By mentioning word combinations like "old UI", "old graphics" or "old visuals" above
we understand not following the latest design principles and trends, which can be seen 
on the platforms such as Behance or awwwards.com. Also we mentioned "unpleasant UI visuals", 
what is for us connected to using color pallets, which consist of bad color combinations 
(main color, accent color, contrasts, darkness or lightness of colours).
We suppose that the problem, why are these apps looking old now is the fact that 
they were made few years ago, when the principles and trends were different, 
or it's just a result of bad designing from the begging. Consequently, from our 
side as designers, is very important to "upgrade" those old ideas and looks and give 
them a modern taste.

IDEAS:
- simple, clean and fresh UI
- educational purposes?
- sort of simulation
- adding metabolismus (chemical processes)

SURVEY RESULTS AND USERS’ OPINIONS AND IDEAS:
Now let's talk about the survey we've made to find out what do possible users think about our concept.

1.
We are truly happy due of the fact, that only 5% said, that they don't really 
want to try such type of a strategy game. 56% answered yes, what is also 
great result for us, coz we know, that we have a big amount of possible users, 
who will at least try our game out.

2.
85% agreed, that they want to choose the map, where they want to play 
(this feature is added in our first prototype). Also we have some ideas from users: 
- sort of progression through different locations (not all maps will be accessible in the beginning) 
- predefined starting positions on the map.

3.
Most of the users are interested in Cold Ocean, Mountain River and Wild Swamp locations. 
In the prototype we've added them.

4.
63% answered, that they want to assemble the cell on their own, 30% maybe, 
and a few of them think, that it could be hard. Therefore, we are trying to make 
a process of the cell assembling as simple as possible, so it won't take much user's time and effort.

5.
53% agreed with the idea of having a metabolism system in the game, 
30% will try to get used to it, rest of them think, that it will be too hard understand. 
In accordance with this results we've managed to choose the most visual 
and easy way of understanding, how the cell is working inside. We've chosen a node 
based model, where each organelle in the cell is represented by a node, which has 
some inputs and outputs. Organelle consumes resources, which are visually represented 
by colours and icons and produces by-products and other resources as it's output.

6.
82% finds obligatory to have mutations in the game. Each organelle will have some 
possible mutations, which will be accessible with time,  coincidentally, or by achieving 
different milestones.

7.
33% consider the possibility of using our game for educational purposes, 50% doubt. 
As a result we believe, that we may create a different version of our game, which will 
respect all biological aspects and will have a complete educational materials inside.

8.
Open question about the game goals and what we've as developers found interesting:
- survival as long as possible
- exploration
- being at the top of the food chain
- endless mode
- to kill everyone
- adaptation to the given environment
- balance


UI:
The main idea is to create an UI which will be as simple as possible, which will 
not disturb users’ eyes. We've found choosing  pastel tones 
(no high contrasts and oversaturated colors) as a good idea.

PORTRAITS OF OUR USERS:
1.Dima, 16 years old
- student in the middle school
- owner of a middle price segment Anroid smartphone, enough productive for playing games on it
- likes different strategy games
- most of the time he spends at school or at home
2.Alfred, 22 years old
- university student
- owner of the latest IPhone, which is enough productive for playing games on it
- don’t really like strategy games,  but is interested in discovering new things around him
- has a passion for creation something by himself
- plays simulation games
3.David, 27 years old
- works as a manager in the small company
- owner of the old generation IPhone
- wants to find a way how to spend time on his way to and back from work
- not really interested in biology


